2. Command-line interface
===

tartempion provides a command-line utility to generate projects, pies,
and also to run the tests or the application. (You will find out [later][1]
what a pie is, please be patient. For now, just think it's a controller.)

2.1. Getting help
---

I believe that every project shouldn't need documentation. This is why
the CLI utility provides help. Just type:

    tartempion help

    # or
    tartempion

    # or
    tartempion --help

These three commands will show you the following screen:

    ~$ tartempion

    Usage: tartempion [options] [command]

    Commands:

        create-project <project>
        Create a project named <project>

        create-pie <pie>
        Create a pie named <pie>

        run
        Run tartempion

        test <pie>
        Run the tests in the pie <pie>

        test-all
        Run the tests in all the pies

        help
        Show help

    Options:

        -h, --help     output usage information
        -V, --version  output the version number

As you can see, there are five useful commands.

2.2. Creating a project
---

tartempion provides an easy way to start a project. Just type:

    tartempion create-project someProject

Replace `someProject` with your project's name. It will create a folder
named `someProject` and add the boilerplate files to it. Here are the
files and folders it creates:

    someProject/
        locals/
            locals.js
        middlewares/
            middlewares.js
        pies/
        templates/
        config.json
        package.json
        pies.json
        tartempion.js

2.3. Creating a pie
---

You don't know yet what a pie is, but you will soon find out it is
an essential notion to tartempion. Hopefully for you, the CLI utility
also provides an easy way to create a pie. Just type:

    tartempion create-pie pieName

Replace `pieName` with your pie's name. This command does two things:

- It creates a folder named `pieName` in the `pies/` folder.
- It updates the `pies.json` file to add information about the new pie.

Here are the files and folder created in the new pie:

    pies/
        pieName/
            test/
            controller.js
            model.js
            routes.json

2.4. Running tartempion
---

Once you will have added the pies and coded your application, running
the final application is easy. Just type:

    tartempion run

2.5. Testing the pies
---

tartempion provides an easy way to run the tests you will add to the pies.
Just type:

    tartempion test pieName

If you want to run the tests in all the pies, just type:

    tartempion test-all

   [1]: #4

